# At the 20th Collective Study Session of the CCP Central Committee Politburo, Xi Jinping Stresses: Persist in Being Self-Reliant, Be Strongly Oriented Toward Applications, and Push the Orderly Development of Artificial Intelligence

> Source: https://cset.georgetown.edu/publication/xi-politburo-collective-study-ai-2025/
> Collected: 2026-05-11
> Published: 2025-04-26

Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, April 26 [2025]: On the afternoon of April 25, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) Central Committee Politburo held its 20th collective study session on strengthening the development and supervision of artificial intelligence (AI). While chairing the study session, Xi Jinping stressed that, faced with the new trend of rapid progress of new generation AI technology, China must give full play to the advantages of the new structure for leveraging national capabilities, persist in being self-reliant, be strongly oriented toward applications, and push the healthy and orderly development of China's AI in a beneficial, safe, and fair direction.

Xi Jinping pointed out that AI is a strategic technology that is leading a new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation, and it is profoundly changing human modes of production and ways of life. The Party Central Committee attaches great importance to the development of AI. China must comprehensively advance AI scientific and technological innovation, industrial development, and empowerment of applications, perfect the structural mechanism for AI supervision, and firmly grasp the initiative in AI development and governance.

Xi Jinping stressed that if China is to seize this critical moment and win superiority in the field of AI, it is necessary to achieve breakthroughs in areas such as basic theory, methods, and tools. China must continue to strengthen basic research, concentrate efforts on mastering core technologies such as high-end microchips and foundational software, and construct an autonomously controllable AI foundational software and hardware system with collaborative operations. China must use AI to lead a paradigm shift in scientific research and speed up scientific and technological innovation and breakthroughs in every field.

Xi Jinping pointed out that China's data resources are abundant, its industrial system is matchless, its application scenarios are bountiful, and the room for growth in the market is enormous. China must promote deep integration between AI scientific and technological innovation and industrial innovation, construct an innovation system that is led by enterprises and features industry-academia-research institute-user collaboration, help reinvent and upgrade traditional industries, and open up a new fast track for the development of strategic emerging industries and future industries. China must make overall plans to advance the construction of computing power infrastructure, and deepen the development, use, and open sharing of data resources.

Xi Jinping stressed that, as AI is a new technology and a new field, policy support is very important. China must holistically utilize policies in areas such as intellectual property rights, fiscal policy and taxation, government procurement, and opening facilities to the public. China must promote AI education throughout all stages of academic studies and promote AI literacy education for all of society, and cultivate an inexhaustible wellspring of high-caliber talent.

Xi Jinping pointed out that while AI brings an unprecedented opportunity for development, it also brings unprecedented risks and challenges. China must speed up the formulation and improvement of relevant laws and regulations, the policy system, application specifications, and ethical criteria; construct systems for technology monitoring, early warning for risks, and emergency response; and ensure the safety, reliability, and controllability of AI.

Xi Jinping stressed that AI can be an international public good that enriches all of humanity. China must launch broad international cooperation in AI, help Global South countries strengthen construction of their technological capabilities, strengthen linkages in development strategies, governance rules, and technical standards, and form global governance frameworks, standards, and norms at an early date.
