# Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on May 19, 2026

> Source: https://www.fmprc.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/202605/t20260519_11913636.html
> Collected: 2026-05-21
> Published: Wed, 20 May 2026 06:36:10 GMT
> Source Class: government
> Query: China AI regulation site:gov.cn OR site:cac.gov.cn OR site:miit.gov.cn
> Search Provider: tavily
> Focus Query: none
> Actor Tags: us
> Topic Tags: general-ai, policy

Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on May 19, 2026_Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China IPC Visas English EN 简体中文 Français Русский Español عربي --> Ministry of Foreign Affairs People’s Republic of China &nbsp; The Ministry Main Responsibilities The Minister Principal Officials Departments Related Agencies News Top Stories Speeches Diplomatic Schedule New Ambassadors MFA News Spokesperson’s Remarks News from Overseas Missions Resources Communiqués Foreign Policies In Focus Diplomatic History Diplomatic Figures Protocol Affairs Overseas Missions Chinese Embassies Chinese Consulates General Chinese Missions to International Organizations and Representative Offices Abroad Countries and Regions Asia Africa Europe North America South America Oceania ABOUT CHINA HOME THE MINISTRY Main Responsibilities The Minister Principal Officials Departments Related Agencies NEWS Top Stories Speeches Diplomatic Schedule New Ambassadors MFA News Spokesperson’s Remarks News from Overseas Missions RESOURCES Communiqués Foreign Policies In Focus Diplomatic History Diplomatic Figures Protocol Affairs OVERSEAS MISSIONS Chinese Embassies Chinese Consulates General Chinese Missions to International Organizations and Representative Offices Abroad COUNTRIES AND REGIONS Asia Africa Europe North America South America Oceania ABOUT CHINA Home &nbsp; News &nbsp; Spokesperson’s Remarks Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on May 19, 2026 Updated: May 19, 2026 19:25 At the invitation of Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Moldova Mihai Popsoi will pay an official visit to China from May 21 to 25. Shenzhen TV: The Chinese and Russian sides of the Council of Education under the China-Russia Friendship Committee for Peace and Development recently conducted a survey on China-Russia youth friendship and cultural exchange among people aged between 18 and 35 in both countries. A few days ago, the Global Opinion Research Center at Renmin University of China held a launch event for the survey report, noting that over 80 percent of those surveyed view China-Russia relations as friendly. What’s your comment on this? Guo Jiakun: We noted relevant media reports. The survey is a true barometer of the public opinion in China and Russia. Its results reflect the height of bilateral relations and the hope for more exchanges between the young people. President Putin is starting his state visit to China today. We have every confidence that under the strategic guidance of President Xi and President Putin, China-Russia ever-lasting friendship will enjoy even greater popular support and the youth in both countries will join hands and inject fresh vitality into our comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era. CCTV: During the China-U.S. summit, the two sides reportedly discussed AI regulation and agreed to have dialogue and cooperation. Do you have a comment on this? Guo Jiakun: As two leading AI powers, China and the U.S. need to work together to promote the development and improve the governance of AI to make sure it will better contribute to social progress and the common welfare of the international community. During President Trump’s visit to China, the two heads of state had constructive exchanges on AI and agreed to launch government-to-government dialogue on AI. China-Arab TV: On May 17, a drone attack targeted the infrastructure linked to the Barakah Nuclear Power Plant, striking a substation outside the main premises. What is China’s position on attacks against peaceful nuclear energy facilities, especially from the perspective of international law, the protection of civilian infrastructure and obligations on nuclear security under international conventions? (Similar question from RT TV) Guo Jiakun: China is deeply concerned over the attack on the relevant facilities of the nuclear power plant in the UAE and opposes armed attacks on nuclear facilities for peaceful purposes. China always believes that the sovereignty, security, and territorial integrity of Gulf states should be earnestly respected, and civilians and non-military assets should be protected. The pressing priority is to realize an immediate and full ceasefire and prevent further spread of the conflict. Beijing Daily: The 79th World Health Assembly (WHA) decided to reject the so-called proposal on Taiwan. This has been the 10th year in a row that the WHA has rejected the so-called proposal concerning Taiwan. What’s your comment? Guo Jiakun: The WHA has rejected the so-called proposal on Taiwan for 10 consecutive years, which fully shows that the international commitment to the one-China principle is unshakable, and the authority of the UNGA Resolution 2758 is indisputable. The rejection of the proposal over the past decade shows that the DPP authorities’ “Taiwan independence” separatist stance is doomed to fail. It’s time for the DPP authorities to put to rest their political stunts for “Taiwan independence.” China will achieve complete reunification. Taiwan must return to the motherland. AFP: Ukraine said yesterday that a Russian drone hit a Chinese cargo ship in the Black Sea. What is the foreign ministry’s comment on this? Guo Jiakun: We have noted reports on this. Based on the information we have at this moment, the vessel in question is sailing under the flag of the Marshall Islands with Chinese crew on board. The Chinese Embassy in Ukraine has contacted the Chinese crew and received confirmation that there are no casualties among them. As to the Ukraine crisis, China’s position is consistent and clear. Dialogue and negotiation is the only viable way out of the crisis. Global Times: This year marks the 80th anniversary of the beginning of the Tokyo Trials and the 80th anniversary of the conclusion of the Nuremberg Trials. Japan and Germany are both defeated WWII belligerents, but they differ greatly in terms of implementing the trial verdict, repenting over war crimes and educating the public. Germany recently launched an online Nazi history search tool which has already been visited several million times, triggering yet another social discussion on soul-searching about Nazi crimes. In Japan, however, voices that negate or even attempt to overturn the outcomes of the Tokyo Trials are running rampant. Some Japanese lament they are probably the last ones who still remember the Tokyo Trials. What is China’s view? Guo Jiakun: In the face of justice, there are those who have truly repented, openly apologized, held the fascists fully accountable, launched nationwide anti-Nazi education, formed a legal system that bans Nazi propaganda and severely punishes any denial of history, and thus won the respect of the world. The Japanese government, however, has been shying away from the verdict of justice and history, including casting aside the Murayama Statement and the Kono Statement that express remorse and apologies for Japan’s colonial aggression. The Japanese government even abets right-wing forces’ whitewashing of the war crimes in a bid to challenge the judgement of the Tokyo Trials and reverse the verdict on Japan’s history of aggression. Eighty years on since its defeat, Japan still hasn’t fully remove the pernicious influence of militarism that still haunts the Japanese society as well as the government. Instead, Japan’s Class-A war criminals who launched the war of aggression are worshipped in the Yasukuni war shrine to which many Japanese prime ministers and officials pay tribute, and send ritual offering or monetary donation. To this day, school textbooks in Japan fail to present its history of aggression as it is, nor do they seek to establish a “no-more-war” mindset. Instead, they portray Japan as a “victim” and instill a wrong view of WWII history. This is clearly a challenge to the outcomes of WWII and the postwar international order. Distorting history and covering up crimes will not bring forgiveness or trust. Japan needs to do serious soul-searching, make a clean break with militarism, and truly embark on the path for peace. Beijing Youth Daily: It is reported that Cuba’s President Miguel Diaz-Canel posted on social media that the threats of military aggression against Cuba from the world’s greatest power are well-known. The threat itself already constitutes an international crime. If it were to materialize, it would trigger a bloodbath with incalculable consequences, plus the destructive impact on regional peace. Cuba does not have “aggressive intentions” against any country including the U.S., but has the “absolute legitimate right” to defend itself if the U.S. follows through on mounting military threats. On the same day, the U.S. Department of Treasury imposed sanctions on Cuban intelligence agencies and nine Cuban officials. What’s your comment? Guo Jiakun: China opposes illicit and unilateral sanctions that have no basis in international law, and firmly supports Cuba in safeguarding its national sovereignty and security. We urge the U.S. to immediately stop its blockade or any other form of coercion and pressure against Cuba, and stop violating Cuban people’s rights to survive and thrive. NHK: Russian President Putin is visiting China this week, just after U.S. President Trump’s visit last week. What is the consideration behind this arrangement? What kind of message does China hope to send to the world through the successive diplomatic events? Guo Jiakun: China welcomes President Putin’s state visit to China. China and Russia are comprehensive strategic partners of coordination for a new era. During President Putin’s visit, the two presidents will exchange views on bilateral relations, cooperation in various fields and international and regional issues of mutual interest. As to President Trump’s visit, we’ve already released information. The Paper: According to reports, China‑Africa cooperation has made positive progress this year, with trade in the first four months passing a record high of 800 billion yuan. Distinctive African goods have entered the Chinese market, and quality Chinese products are empowering Africa’s development. People across Africa see cooperation with China as an accelerator for the continent’s development. There has been some voice from the press calling on Eswatini to establish diplomatic ties with China at an early date so that it will not miss out on future development opportunities. What is your take on this? Guo Jiakun: Under the framework of the Forum on China‑Africa Cooperation and the Belt and Road Initiative, China‑Africa cooperation across the board has been flourishing, giving a strong boost to industrialization and agricultural modernization in African countries and delivering tangible benefits to the African people. On May 1 this year, China started extending zero-tariff treatment to 53 African countries having diplomatic relations with China across the board, opening its vast market wide open to Africa. We sincerely hope all African countries will join the big family of China‑Africa cooperation, make full use of the opportunities brought by China’s development, contribute to China-Africa friendship, and pursue common modernization. Bloomberg: The Philippines’ President Ferdinand Marcos Jr. said his country would likely be involved in any conflict over Taiwan due to his country’s proximity to the island. To quote him, we do not have a choice because Taiwan is so close to the Philippines, and we have almost 200,000 Filipino nationals living and working in Taiwan. Does the foreign ministry have any comment? Guo Jiakun: China noted that the Philippine leader reiterates his commitment to the one-China policy and non-interference in China’s internal affairs. It should be emphasized that, “large number of Filipinos living and working” on the Taiwan island and “geopolitical proximity” should not serve as the excuse for one country to interfere in another country’s internal and sovereign affairs. We hope the Philippines could honor its commitments, match its words with actions, and abide by the one-China principle with concrete actions. Bloomberg: According to a report in the Financial Times, the Chinese side said during the China-U.S. Summit last week that Russian President Vladimir Putin might end up “regretting” his invasion of Ukraine. Any comment? Guo Jiakun: We have released information on the China-U.S. summit. What you just cited is completely false. Links: State Council Ministry of Commerce National Development and Reform Commission National Immigration Administration Copyright&copy; www.fmprc.gov.cn Address: 2 Chaoyangmen Nandajie, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100701 Tel: 86 - 10 - 65961114
