# Why India and the Global South need open-source AI | Hindustan Times

> Source: https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-india-and-the-global-south-need-open-source-ai-101779032579259.html
> Collected: 2026-05-20
> Published: 2 days ago
> Source Class: mainstream
> Query: open model licensing AI government reaction
> Search Provider: serpapi
> Actor Tags: shared
> Topic Tags: open-models

Why India and the Global South need open-source AI | Hindustan Times Sun, May 17, 2026 New Delhi 40 o C E-Paper Subscribe Subscribe Enjoy unlimited access Subscribe Now! Get features like Ad lite A Minimal Ad Experience HT Premium Articles Expertly crafted articles Quickreads Segment News brief in summary format HT E-paper Access digital news experience Subscribe Now Edit Profile Subscribe Now Saved Articles Following My Reads Sign out Get App HT Newsletters Weather Today About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Print Ad Rates Code of Ethics Sitemap RSS Feeds Subscription - Terms of Use Privacy and Cookie Settings Copyright © HT Digital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved. FOLLOW US Sign in E-Paper Home Elections 2026 India News World News Entertainment Lifestyle Cities Trending HTCity Astrology Horoscope 2026 US News HT Premium HT The Next Voice Games HT Bangla HT Telugu Business Real Estate Education Latest News Livemint + 18 more Trending HTCity Astrology Cricket Horoscope 2026 US News HT Premium HT The Next Voice Games HT Bangla HT Telugu Business Real Estate Education Latest News Livemint Smart Money IPL Points Table Sports Delhi News Century of Leadership Bengaluru News Mumbai News Technology Quickreads Daily Digest Following Photos Games + 5 more Quickreads Daily Digest Following Photos Games Why India and the Global South need open-source AI The open source AI path is not only the path that meets the demand for “digital sovereignty” but also the one that leads to technology that improves the future Published on: May 17, 2026 9:12 PM IST By Mishi Choudhary , Eben Moglen Share via Copy link Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a technology that is adaptable for many purposes, fed with human linguistic and other behavioural data that is scraped from the immense datasphere existing in the web. Like the forms of software that are necessary for its creation and use, this software, too, is being produced in an unequal competition between parties making “open source” software that anyone can copy, improve and share, and parties making closed, proprietary systems. The parties making FOSS AI are intellectual forces across the world’s universities, the enthusiastic individuals learning and wishing to learn the technologies, early-adopting US giants, and the immense Chinese industry. (Bloomberg) Over the last few decades, free and open source software (FOSS) has come to dominate the global software industry. Despite the efforts of proprietary-technology companies with enormous resources, sharing rather than excluding turned out to be the way to make better software and, therefore, more money. In the end, even those companies adopted, to varying extent, FOSS licensing and software-making practices. Our lawyering created some of the fundamental licensing and project organisation structures that underlay this immense change. The same process is repeating itself, unsurprisingly, in the layer where machine learning models are at the frontier of software development. Once again, big companies are at the forefront of proprietary development. They have pursued the most capital-intensive strategies for making vertically-integrated intelligent systems. Their goals are to attain “artificial general intelligence” and to give capital an unbeatable bargaining leverage over skilled workers by threatening them with automated replacement. The parties making FOSS AI are intellectual forces across the world’s universities, the enthusiastic individuals learning and wishing to learn the technologies, early-adopting US giants, and the immense Chinese industry. The goal is to embed intelligent systems in physical products of every description sold throughout the world. Open source development and sharing gives industry technical flexibility, resistance to anti-competitive oligopoly, and — crucially — design emphasis on lower capital-intensity of production and operation, including radically lower power requirements. Having worked in precisely this corner of law and economics for decades, we know who will win and why. With a small number of staggeringly wealthy multinational firms trying to control the technology, national governments too recognise that the rules of software distribution and the political implications of its operation threaten their autonomy. So “digital sovereignty” is again the motto of the moment, reflecting the anxieties of governments about the potential development of private power so much greater than their own. The phrase seems to evade a precise definition in this environment of hype and alarmist rhetoric. But “digital sovereignty” in this context means what our community has always called “freedom”. It means four basic rights: The right to use technology for a desired purpose without requiring additional permissions; the right to study, modify, reuse, and improve the technology; the right to copy, operate at any scale, and the right to share with anyone — all without restrictions, prices, or additional requirements. These freedoms, which underlay our “free software” licensing models, are also what governments want now. Translating those rights into legal guarantees will prevent anti-competitive oligopolies, controlling use of licences and other “intellectual property” limitations, fostering free exchange of knowledge and rapid technical and economic development. This has been the history of the global software industry over the last generation, and it is what governments are urgently seeking now. The US software industry is now built around an effort to achieve goals that are economically incompatible with the welfare of Indian society, with the needs of the Indian government. Chinese technology’s technical and political emphases are also unsuited to Indian requirements. India needs intelligent technologies not to build products for export, but to accelerate human development without demanding vast resources or burdening the environment. Those are not the needs of India alone, but of billions of people throughout the Global South and in the social democracies of Europe. This is what India will export in the global AI economy. The path of open source AI is not only the path that our recent history says is most likely to prevail; not only the one that meets the demand for “digital sovereignty”, but also one that leads to technology that improves the human future. Mishi Choudhary is a technology lawyer and online civil liberties activist working in the US and India. Eben Moglen is professor of law and legal history at Columbia University. The views expressed are personal Artificial Intelligence Get Current Updates on India News , Elections 2024 , Lok sabha election 2024 voting live , Karnataka election 2024 live in Bengaluru , Election 2024 Date along with Latest News and Top Headlines from India and around the world. Home / Opinion / Why India And The Global South Need Open-source AI See Less Subscribe to our best newsletters Daily News Capsule Daily News Capsule What&#x27;s On My Mind HT Wknd HT Week Ahead Wired Wisdom HT City HT Mind the Gap HT Kick Off Fairways and Greens HT World Sign Up to Subscribe LATEST NEWS WORLD NEWS INDIA NEWS CRICKET IPL Live Score Cricket Schedule IPL Match Today IPL Orange Cap IPL Purple Cap IPL Points Table IPL Most 6s IPL Most 4s IPL Most 50s Ruturaj Gaikwad Virat Kohli KL Rahul Ajinkya Rahane Yashasvi Jaiswal Hardik Pandya Rohit Sharma RCB Squad SRH Squad Jasprit Bumrah Cameron Green Mukul Choudhary RCB IPL 2026 Schedule CSK IPL 2026 Schedule PBKS IPL 2026 Schedule MI IPL 2026 Schedule RR IPL 2026 Schedule Delhi Capitals IPL Schedule SRH IPL 2026 Schedule KKR IPL 2026 Schedule LSG IPL 2026 Schedule Gujarat Titans IPL Schedule RR vs RCB LIVE Scorecard PBKS vs SRH LIVE Scorecard CSK vs DC LIVE Scorecard CITY NEWS Bengaluru News Bhopal News Chandigarh News Dehradun News Delhi News Gurugram News Indore News Jaipur News Kolkata News Lucknow News Mumbai News Noida News Patna News Pune News Ranchi News Other Cities ENTERTAINMENT Bollywood News Hollywood News Music News Tamil Cinema News Telugu Cinema News TV News Web series News Entertainment Others ASTROLOGY Horoscope EDUCATION Admission News Board Exams Competitive Exams Employment News Exam Results Education News LIFESTYLE Art and Culture Brunch Fashion Festivals Health Recipes Relationship Travel Pet WEB STORIES TRENDING BUSINESS PHOTOS VIDEOS BUDGET ENVIRONMENT SCIENCE OPINION EDITORIALS CAR AND BIKE TECHNOLOGY SPORTS Badminton Football Hockey Tennis Others BOOKS HT INSIGHT ELECTIONS Upcoming Elections Assembly Election Bihar Election Delhi Election Maharashtra Election Haryana Election J&amp;K Election QUICKREADS COVID 19 GAMES Daily Sudoku Daily Crossword Daily Word Jumble INCOME TAX CALCULATOR TRENDING NEWS US Iran War LIVE#nonAmp PM Modi Amit Shah Rajinikanth Saif Ali Khan Urvashi rautela Sourav ganguly Arshdeep singh Weekly tarot horoscope Weekly love horoscope PBKS vs RCB LIVE TRENDING TOPICS Orange Cap in IPL 2026 Purple Cap in IPL 2026 IPL Points Table IPL Live Score Bollywood News Hollywood News Telugu Cinema Entertainment News Bangla News Telugu News Amazon Great Summer Sale 2026 Amazon Sale (May 2026) Latest Stories ‘Want to congratulate…’: Djokovic&#x27;s sweet message to Jannik Sinner amid historic final Alex Cooper expecting first baby with husband Matt Kaplan: What is couple&#x27;s net worth? Ishaan Khatter conferred with honorary membership of 45 Cavalry of the Indian Armoured Corps: ‘Honour of a lifetime’ Testing times for social amity Safeguarding past gains in a decade of disasters Why India and the Global South need open-source AI Persevering through times of war, scarcity Big power diplomacy on display in Beijing Shah to flag off 400 ‘Dial 112’ emergency response vehicles, 33 mobile forensic labs in Chhattisgarh Trump speaks with Israel PM Netanyahu as US mulls fresh strikes on Iran Top LiveBlogs: DC vs RR LIVE Score IPL 2026: Vaibhav Sooryavanshi falls after scoring 46, Madhav Tiwari continues to deliver for DC Abu Dhabi news LIVE: UAE says it dealt with three drone strikes, probe underway on attack near nuclear site About Us Contact us Terms of use Privacy policy Weather Today HT Newsletters Subscription Print Ad Rates Code of Ethics Sitemap RSS Feeds © 2026 HindustanTimes
