# OpenAI defeats Elon Musk's lawsuit - iTnews

> Source: https://www.itnews.com.au/news/openai-defeats-elon-musks-lawsuit-625975
> Collected: 2026-05-20
> Published: Mon, 18 May 2026 20:41:00 GMT
> Source Class: mainstream
> Query: DeepSeek Qwen Llama Mistral open-source AI policy
> Search Provider: tavily
> Actor Tags: us
> Topic Tags: chips, cloud, m-and-a, military, open-models, policy, regulation, safety

OpenAI defeats Elon Musk's lawsuit - iTnews Latest News AustralianSuper hires its first head of AI and automation Government innovation across key sectors Service Stream is checking field work with computer vision Event Cinemas owner EVT to make network software-defined Telcos unable to overturn $7.3bn bill to renew mobile spectrum LOG IN SUBSCRIBE &nbsp; NEWS GOVERNMENT SECURITY AI DIGITAL NATION RESOURCES PODCAST EVENTS ADVERTISE Search BUSINESS CLOUD DATA CENTRE EDUCATION FINANCIAL SERVICES HARDWARE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRIAL NETWORKING PROJECTS SOFTWARE STORAGE STRATEGY TECHNOLOGY TELCO/ISP HR MARKETING FINANCE LEADERSHIP GOVERNANCE EMERGING TECH State of Security 2026 STATE OF SECURITY 2025 State of HR Tech State of AI 2024 Special Reports Focal Points MEDIA HUB PARTNER CONTENT PARTNER HUBS RESEARCH Tech Partner Views iTnews TV Cloud Covered Security Breakfast Executive Retreat NEWS BUSINESS CLOUD DATA CENTRE EDUCATION FINANCIAL SERVICES HARDWARE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRIAL NETWORKING PROJECTS SOFTWARE STORAGE STRATEGY TECHNOLOGY TELCO/ISP GOVERNMENT SECURITY AI DIGITAL NATION HR MARKETING FINANCE LEADERSHIP GOVERNANCE EMERGING TECH RESOURCES State of Security 2026 STATE OF SECURITY 2025 State of HR Tech State of AI 2024 Special Reports Focal Points MEDIA HUB PARTNER CONTENT PARTNER HUBS RESEARCH Tech Partner Views iTnews TV PODCAST EVENTS Cloud Covered Security Breakfast Executive Retreat ADVERTISE Log In Email: Password: Remember me | &nbsp; Forgot password? Don't have an account? Register now! Home News Technology Software OpenAI defeats Elon Musk's lawsuit By Deepa Seetharaman, Jonathan Stempel and Greg Bensinger May 19 2026 6:41AM "Not over". &nbsp;A US jury has ruled against Elon Musk in his lawsuit against OpenAI, &#8288;finding the artificial &#8288;intelligence company not liable to the world's richest person for having allegedly strayed from its original mission to benefit humanity. In a unanimous verdict, the jury in Oakland, California, federal court said Musk had brought his case&nbsp;too late. The jury deliberated less than two hours. The trial had widely been seen as a critical moment for the future of OpenAI and artificial intelligence generally, both in how it should be used and who should benefit from it. The decision &zwnj;simplifies the path for OpenAI to proceed with a possible initial public offering that could value the business &zwnj;at US$1 &zwnj;trillion ($1.4 trillion). But the public face of the company, chief executive Sam Altman, must also deal with any challenges to &zwnj;his reputation from some extremely personal testimony, including multiple witnesses describing him as a liar. Following the verdict, Musk's lawyers &#8288;said in court that he reserved the right to appeal. Addressing reporters after the verdict, Musk lawyer Marc Toberoff said Musk would have a strong basis for an appeal. "This one is not over," he said. "The ruling, based on the statute of limitations, has factual components but it has major legal components as well." US District Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers, who oversaw the trial, said in court that Musk may face an uphill battle for a &#8203;potential appeal because whether the statute of limitations ran out before Musk sued was a factual issue. "There's a substantial amount of evidence to support the jury's finding, which is why I was prepared to dismiss on the spot," the judge said. Musk invested early in OpenAI In his &#8288;2024 lawsuit, Musk accused OpenAI, its chief executive Sam Altman and its president Greg Brockman of manipulating him into giving US$38 million, then going behind his back by attaching a for-profit business to its original nonprofit and accepting tens of billions of dollars from Microsoft and other investors. Musk called the OpenAI defendants' conduct "stealing a charity." Toberoff said the verdict could encourage other startups that begin as non-profits but have greater ambitions to raise money, create for-profit entities to scale, and make their officers and directors rich. "It's a brand new formula for Silicon Valley," he told reporters. OpenAI was founded by Altman, Musk and several others in 2015. Musk left its board in 2018, and OpenAI set up a for-profit business the next year. Musk has since founded his own artificial intelligence startup, xAI, which is now part of his space and rocket company SpaceX. OpenAI countered that it was Musk who saw dollar signs, and that he waited too long to claim OpenAI &#8203;breached its founding agreement to build safe artificial intelligence to benefit humanity. Musk had a three-year statute &#8288;of limitations to sue, and OpenAI's lawyers said his August 2024 lawsuit came too late because he knew several &#8288;years earlier about OpenAI's growth plans. Bill Savitt, a lawyer for OpenAI, told reporters after the verdict that Musk's lawsuit was an "after-the-fact contrivance that bears no relationship to reality," and jurors "kicked it exactly where &#8203;it belongs, which is to the side." "The finding of the jury confirms that what this lawsuit was, was a hypocritical attempt to sabotage a competitor, and to overcome a &zwnj;long history of very bad &#8288;predictions about what OpenAI has been and will become," Savitt said. The verdict followed 11 days of testimony and arguments where Musk's and Altman's credibility came under repeated attack. Microsoft faced an aiding and abetting claim. In a statement, a Microsoft spokesperson said, "The facts and the timeline in this case have long been clear and we welcome the jury's decision to dismiss these claims as untimely." Microsoft has spent &zwnj;more than US$100 billion on its partnership with OpenAI, a Microsoft executive testified. OpenAI prepares for IPO People use AI for myriad purposes such as education, facial recognition, financial advice, journalism, legal research, medical diagnoses, and harmful deep-fakes. Many people express distrust of the technology and worry it could displace people from their jobs. Each side accused the other of being more interested in money than serving the public. Musk accused OpenAI of wrongfully trying to enrich investors and insiders at the nonprofit's expense, and &#8203;failing to prioritize AI's safety. He also contended that Microsoft knew all along that OpenAI cared more about money than being altruistic. In his closing argument, Musk's lawyer Steven Molo reminded jurors that several witnesses questioned Altman's candor or branded him a liar, and that Altman did not give an unqualified yes when asked during the trial if he was completely trustworthy. "Sam Altman's credibility is directly at &zwnj;issue," Molo said. "If you don't &#8288;believe him, they cannot win." Sarah Eddy, a lawyer for the OpenAI &#8203;defendants, accused Musk and his legal team in her closing arguments of resorting to "sound bites and irrelevant false accusations." SpaceX is preparing an IPO that could exceed OpenAI's in size. Add iTnews as your trusted source Got a news tip for our journalists? Share it with us anonymously here . &#169; 2019 Thomson Reuters. Click for Restrictions. Tags: ai elon musk open software Related Articles Service Stream is checking field work with computer vision Service NSW charts a path off VMware's container platform Australia Post's future IT estate to rely on 13 "platform ecosystems" Lendi Group runs first project through "agentic SDLC" Join our WhatsApp Channel Partner Content Learn more &nbsp; &#8594; ">Partner Content Infrastructure and cyber teams must converge as threats evolve: Infotrust Learn more &nbsp; &#8594; ">Partner Content Why Backing Up Your Microsoft 365 Data Is Only Half the Job Learn more &nbsp; &#8594; ">Partner Content Take control of your connectivity with Telstra&#8217;s Adaptive Networks Centre Learn more &#8594; ">Promoted Content Intelligence &#215; Trust: the equation that will decide Australia's AI winners Sponsored Whitepapers 1 in 3 companies lose SaaS data. Here&#8217;s how to prevent it The biggest AI opportunities are still ahead AI workflows vs. AI agents: From automation to autonomy Context engineering with hybrid search for agentic AI Building search in the age of generative AI: A blueprint for success Events iTnews Executive Retreat - Data & AI Edition iTnews Cloud Covered Breakfast Summit iTnews State of Security Breakfast The 2026 iAwards Integrate 2026 Most Read Articles Services Australia describes fraud, debt-related machine learning use cases Australia Post's future IT estate to rely on 13 "platform ecosystems" Service NSW charts a path off VMware's container platform NSW' $969m single digital patient record at risk of cost overruns Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Sydney-based AI-cloud waste startup raises $3m Brennan uses NiCE to modernise its contact centre Impact Awards: Tecala slashes customer response times for fintech IQumulate Interactive introduces private cloud platform Digital61 expands cybersecurity portfolio Most popular tech stories &nbsp; ABC drops Salesforce for Braze CBA opens a second US 'tech hub' IAG drives AI more deeply across its operations Chemist Warehouse's AI tool for HR becoming a "standard pattern" Virgin Australia, Wesfarmers strike OpenAI agreements &nbsp; HamiltonJet partners with digital services provider Fortude SentinelOne signs distribution agreement with Sektor Rapid7&#8217;s new SIEM combines exposure management with threat detection The techpartner.news podcast, episode 3: Why security consultancy founder Kat McCrabb started with the hard stuff Bluechip Infotech enters final stage of Goodson Imports acquisition &nbsp; Blackberry celebrates "giant step forward" 'Touch-free' smartphone controlled with head movements Photos: Australian industry explores data for net zero Telstra Purple acquires IoT specialists Alliance Automation, Aqura Technologies Govt launches consumer tech label program for smart devices Contact Us About Us Editorial Guidelines Authors Feedback Advertise Newsletter Archive Site Map RSS &nbsp; &copy; 2026 nextmedia Pty Ltd . OTHER TECH SITES: techpartner.news &nbsp;|&nbsp; Digital Nation &nbsp;|&nbsp; IoT Hub All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorisation. Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of nextmedia's Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions . Powered By Log In Don't have an account? Register now! Email: Password: Remember me &nbsp; | &nbsp; Forgot your password?
