# ASML says first chips made with High-NA machines to arrive in months

> Source: https://telecom.economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/devices/asmls-high-na-machines-set-to-revolutionize-chip-production-in-coming-months/131214199
> Collected: 2026-05-20
> Published: 7 hours ago
> Source Class: mainstream
> Query: ASML TSMC AI compute cloud latest news
> Search Provider: serpapi
> Focus Query: none
> Actor Tags: eu
> Topic Tags: chips, industry

ASML's High-NA Machines Set to Revolutionize Chip Production in Coming Months, ETTelecom --> --> skip to main content --> --> Login Get App News Industry Devices Satcom Interviews ETTSpecial Policy MVAS/Apps Internet Reviews Telecom Equipment Enterprise Services Prepaid/Postpaid 5G Corner Americas Asia Bangladesh China Indonesia Japan Malaysia Singapore EU France Germany Africa Australia Britain Russia Middle East View all News Exclusives Leaders Speak Events Awards Webinars Brand Solutions More Newsletters MasterClasses About Us Contact Us Advertise With Us Search Satcom DefCom Data Center IoT AI Industry Policy Telecom Equipment More Devices Enterprise Interviews Tele-Talk Jobs & Careers Tele-Stats Smartphone Smartphone Reviews Integrated Campaigns Bespoke Events Advertorial Virtual Engagement Videos Digital Branding & Awareness More More Devices 2 min read ASML says first chips made with High-NA machines to arrive in months ​​Demand from advanced ⁠chipmakers for ASML's EUV, or extreme ultraviolet, lithography tools used to print ​tiny chip circuits, has helped the Dutch manufacturer become Europe's most ​valuable company. Chipmakers are now testing the High NA, or high numerical aperture, version of the tool, which will be able to produce features up to 66% smaller - similar to having a better focus on a camera. Reuters Published On May 20, 2026 at 07:19 AM IST Copy Link Share on WhatsApp Share on Linkedin Share on X Share on Telegram Share on Facebook The bottom module of a $400-million High NA EUV machine made by ASML is shown at the headquarters of Belgian chip research lab IMEC. Once fully assembled, the machine will be used to develop and commercialize future generations of computer chips, in Leuven, Belgium, March 18, 2026. REUTERS/Piroschka van de Wouw By Toby Sterling and Nathan Vifflin ANTWERP: ASML expects the first chips made with its next-generation High-NA EUV machines to be &zwnj;delivered within &#8288;months, Chief &#8288;Executive Christophe Fouquet said on Tuesday, as the Dutch company addresses concerns about the new technology's costs. The computer chip equipment maker's top customer TSMC said last month High-NA machines, which can cost up to $400 million each, were too expensive to use for now. Fouquet, however, expressed confidence in the technology's adoption. Advt "In the next few months, we will be looking at the first few products, in memory, in logic, being exposed on the High-NA system", he told a conference organised by research firm imec &#8288;in Antwerp. "Those technologies &zwnj;are expensive. They are requiring qualification. But they are always designed with the idea that over time they will lower the cost of patterning," Fouquet said. Demand from advanced &#8288;chipmakers for ASML's EUV, or extreme ultraviolet, lithography tools used to print tiny chip circuits, has helped the Dutch manufacturer become Europe's most valuable company. Chipmakers are now testing the High NA, or high numerical aperture, version of the tool, which will be able to produce features up to 66% smaller - similar to having a better focus on a camera. Intel has been the most aggressive in preparing to adopt ASML's High-NA tool, in an attempt to leapfrog competitors TSMC and Samsung. Memory chip makers including SK Hynix have also said they &zwnj;intend to use the new technology. TSMC has not ruled it out, but executive Kevin Zhang said it will stick with ASML's current EUV product for the next several generations of chips as the company &#8288;keeps squeezing out advances through innovative chip designs that don't require smaller lines. Fouquet said the artificial intelligence boom is expected to keep chip sales rising by 20% per year in the coming years. He acknowledged that some in the industry fear ASML's production capacity may be a bottleneck in expanding chip production, as it was during the COVID pandemic. Advt But in a nod to TSMC and Samsung executives who spoke earlier at the conference, he quipped that they are the real bottleneck for AI as their firms must expand production - and buy more ASML products. Reuters Updated On May 20, 2026 at 07:19 AM IST --> Published On May 20, 2026 at 07:19 AM IST 2 min read --> See more on: ASML , ASML High-NA EUV machines , next-generation chip technology , TSMC High-NA adoption , chip manufacturing costs , ASML machines , International Telegram Facebook Copy Link Comments What are your thoughts? Comment Now --> Comment Now Read Comment (1) All Comments By commenting, you agree to the Prohibited Content Policy Post By commenting, you agree to the Prohibited Content Policy Post Find this Comment Offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the submit button. This will alert our moderators to take actions REASONS FOR REPORTING Foul Language Defamatory Inciting hatred against a certain community Out of Context / Spam Others Report Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. --> All about ETTelecom industry right on your smartphone! Download the ETTelecom App and get the Realtime updates and Save your favourite articles. --> Scan to download App --> --> --> News See whats happening in Telecom sector right now --> Exclusive Read and get insights from specially curated unique stories from editorial Leaders Speak Business leaders sharing their insights Events Explore and discuss challenges & trends in India's leading B2B events Awards Recognise work that not only stood out but was also purposeful Webinars Join leaders & experts for roundtables, conferences, panels and discussions Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals Subscribe to our Daily Newsletter By continuing you agree to our Privacy Policy & Terms & Conditions Advertise With Us We have various options to advertise with us including Events, Advertorials, Banners, Mailers, etc. Get in Touch Download ETTelecom App Save your favourite articles with seamless reading experience Get updates on your preferred social platform Follow us for the latest news, insider access to events and more. About Us Contact Us Newsletters RSS Feed Sitemap --> Guest-Post Guidelines RSS Feed Sitemap RSS Feed Sitemap Guest-Post Guidelines The Economic Times Business Verticals India --> Auto Retail Health Energy CIO Real Estate Marketing & Advertising CFO IT Security BFSI Government Hospitality HR Legal ET TravelWorld Infra B2B CIOSEA HRSEA HREMEA Education EnergyWorldMEA Manufacturing Pharma ETGCC ETEnterpriseAI TechGig @2026 ETTelecom.com. All Right Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Times of India Group Events Home News Devices ASML says first chips made with High-NA machines to arrive in months ", -->
