# 7. Mistral

> Source: https://www.cnbc.com/2026/05/19/mistral-cnbc-disruptor-50-ranking.html
> Collected: 2026-05-20
> Published: 21 hours ago
> Source Class: mainstream
> Query: AI geopolitics China US EU latest news
> Search Provider: serpapi
> Actor Tags: eu
> Topic Tags: geopolitics, open-models

7. Mistral Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Europe Markets China Markets Asia Markets World Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures &amp; Commodities Bonds Funds &amp; ETFs Business Economy Finance Health &amp; Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Europe Politics China Politics Asia Politics World Politics Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Top Video Live Audio Europe TV Asia TV CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim&#x27;s Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news &amp; videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Now in its 14th year, CNBC&#x27;s annual Disruptor 50 list looks at the most promising venture-backed companies innovating across industries, experimenting with AI and, increasingly, making it work at scale. 1. Anthropic 2. OpenAI 3. Databricks 4. Anduril 5. Ramp 6. Sierra 7. Mistral 8. Whatnot 9. Cyera 10. Notion 11. Rippling 12. Transcarent 13. Metropolis 14. OURA 15. Cognite 16. Ripple 17. Samsara Eco 18. Thyme Care 19. Vaulted Deep 20. Canva 21. Applied Intuition 22. Carbon Robotics 23. Socure 24. Harvey 25. Lila Sciences 26. Armada 27. Waabi 28. Island 29. Revolut 30. Abridge 31. Perplexity 32. OpenEvidence 33. Iambic 34. Lead Bank 35. Luma AI 36. Legora 37. Cursor 38. Decagon 39. Lovable 40. Saronic 41. Glean 42. Replit 43. Kalshi 44. WHOOP 45. Runway 46. Abnormal AI 47. Vanta 48. Polymarket 49. Shield AI 50. Apptronik CNBC Disruptor 50 7. Mistral Published Tue, May 19 2026 5:56 AM EDT Rebecca Fannin @rfannin WATCH LIVE Founders: Arthur Mensch (CEO), Timothée Lacroix, Guillaume Lample Launched: 2023 Headquarters: Paris, France Funding: $3.1 billion Valuation: $13.8 billion Key Technologies: Artificial intelligence, cloud computing, generative AI, machine learning Industry: Enterprise technology Previous appearances on Disruptor 50 list: 0 Igor Gnedo, Antonina Lepore &amp; Adrianne Paerels Three years ago, CEO and co-founder Arthur Mensch set out to define Mistral as an independent, open source European alternative to AI giants&#x27; walled-in, monetized large language models. It&#x27;s worked. Mistral has stacked up revenue, financing and customers and become Europe&#x27;s most formidable AI company. The Parisian tech startup racked up an annualized revenue run rate exceeding $400 million in January 2026, up from $20 million a year ago, and it&#x27;s set to hit $1 billion by 2026 year-end. Moreover, Mistral raised a near-$2 billion Series C round at close to a $14 billion valuation led by Dutch chip equipment maker ASML as a strategic investor with several others including Nvidia, Andreessen Horowitz and original investor Lightspeed joining. Mensch and his co-founders, chief scientist Guillaume Lample and CTO Timothée Lacroix — graduates of leading-edge French research and science institutions and key members of Alphabet and Meta AI research teams — are determined for Europe to play a big part in the AI boom . Mistral is aggressively launching new products and partnerships, such as a vibe-coding tool, a corporate-focused chatbot service, and a new AI model, Forge, for customized training of proprietary data within a domain. More coverage of the 2026 CNBC Disruptor 50 2026 CNBC Disruptor 50: See the full list of companies The latest trends shaping Disruptor success stories How we chose this year&#x27;s list The European identify of Mistral has been a key competitive differentiator in a market dominated by U.S. giants and fellow 2026 Disruptors Anthropic and OpenAI and increasing Chinese competition from startup DeepSeek and tech titan Alibaba. In this highly competitive field, challenges remain in staying on pace with far larger U.S. rivals with more resources and the innovative, cheaper Chinese upstarts. But geopolitical conflicts are leading European governments and companies to seek AI tools distant from U.S. technology, and Mensch has said this nationalistic trend is accelerating Mistral&#x27;s growth. The company has a strong concentration of European customers, in banking (HSBC), automotive (Stellantis), technology and engineering (ASML), retail (Tesco) and government, including France, Germany and Greece. Leaning into the pro-European movement, Mistral is building its own data centers in Europe, and recently secured $830 million in debt financing toward building the first one to be running in Paris by 2027. In the U.S., Mistral is dwarfed by Anthropic and OpenAI, whether the measure is valuation, enterprise revenue or market share — Anthropic at 40 percent, OpenAI at 27 percent and Mistral at 2 percent, according to a recent Menlo Ventures survey of 500 U.S. AI enterprise decision makers. But the European AI champion is expanding its presence in Asia and the U.S. Mistral recently set up an office in Singapore and has plans to open its first office in India. Mistral also has been hiring for roles in New York and has been on a hiring spree in Silicon Valley for its Palo Alto office. All in all, the company has over 800 employees representing 30 nationalities. Sign up for our weekly, original newsletter that goes beyond the annual Disruptor 50 list, offering a closer look at the most promising venture-backed companies. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. More In CNBC Disruptor 50 2026 CNBC Disruptor 50 list: Why Anthropic was No. 1 in this year&#x27;s rankings Julia Boorstin 2026 CNBC Disruptor 50: See the full list of companies, rankings, and a new leader in the AI race CNBC.com staff 2026 CNBC Disruptor 50 list: How we chose this year&#x27;s companies David Spiegel Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing &amp; Reprints CNBC Councils Join the CNBC Panel Digital Products News Releases Closed Captioning Corrections About CNBC Internships Site Map Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by
