# ASML says first chips made with High-NA machines to arrive in months

> Source: https://telecom.economictimes.indiatimes.com/amp/news/devices/asmls-high-na-machines-set-to-revolutionize-chip-production-in-coming-months/131214199
> Collected: 2026-05-20
> Published: 6 hours ago
> Source Class: mainstream
> Query: ASML TSMC AI compute cloud latest news
> Search Provider: serpapi
> Actor Tags: eu
> Topic Tags: chips, industry

ASML's High-NA Machines Set to Revolutionize Chip Production in Coming Months, ETTelecom --> Get App Home News Exclusives Events Awards More Login Go Leaders Speak Webinars Brand Solutions Satcom DefCom Data Center IoT AI Industry Policy Telecom Equipment Devices Enterprise Interviews Tele-Talk Jobs & Careers Tele-Stats Smartphone Smartphone Reviews MasterClasses Newsletters About Us Contact Us Recognising India's Ace Co Kaleido Awards 2022 Live Virtual Summit Gaming Activation: If it's on, it's on! Online Masterclass Advanced Strategic Management Masterclass --> 5G Corner Your hub for 5G news & insights - covering India & global rollouts, spectrum & policy, enterprise & consumer use cases, network innovations, private 5G, edge computing, devices, interviews & expert analysis to help leaders track what’s next. Data Center Read the latest news on data centers, AI impact, cloud computing, sustainability, and emerging markets. Internet of Things Latest news about the IoT ecosystem and market, applications, and interconnected devices and chipsets. Artificial Intelligence Get up-to-date stories on AI advancements, breakthroughs, ethics, and industry impact. Your Privacy is Important to us We encourage you to review our Terms of Service , and Privacy Policy . By continuing, you agree to the Terms listed here. In case you want to opt out, please click "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information" link in the footer of this page. Continue Opt out of the sale or sharing of personal information We won't sell or share your personal information to inform the ads you see. You may still see interest-based ads if your information is sold or shared by other companies or was sold or shared previously. Dismiss Opt out Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Devices 2 min read ASML says first chips made with High-NA machines to arrive in months ​​Demand from advanced ⁠chipmakers for ASML's EUV, or extreme ultraviolet, lithography tools used to print ​tiny chip circuits, has helped the Dutch manufacturer become Europe's most ​valuable company. Chipmakers are now testing the High NA, or high numerical aperture, version of the tool, which will be able to produce features up to 66% smaller - similar to having a better focus on a camera. Reuters Updated On May 20, 2026 at 07:19 AM IST 2 min read --> The bottom module of a $400-million High NA EUV machine made by ASML is shown at the headquarters of Belgian chip research lab IMEC. Once fully assembled, the machine will be used to develop and commercialize future generations of computer chips, in Leuven, Belgium, March 18, 2026. REUTERS/Piroschka van de Wouw By Toby Sterling and Nathan Vifflin ANTWERP: ASML expects the first chips made with its next-generation High-NA EUV machines to be &zwnj;delivered within &#8288;months, Chief &#8288;Executive Christophe Fouquet said on Tuesday, as the Dutch company addresses concerns about the new technology's costs. The computer chip equipment maker's top customer TSMC said last month High-NA machines, which can cost up to $400 million each, were too expensive to use for now. Fouquet, however, expressed confidence in the technology's adoption. Advt "In the next few months, we will be looking at the first few products, in memory, in logic, being exposed on the High-NA system", he told a conference organised by research firm imec &#8288;in Antwerp. "Those technologies &zwnj;are expensive. They are requiring qualification. But they are always designed with the idea that over time they will lower the cost of patterning," Fouquet said. continued below --> Webinar Scaling Campus Wi-Fi: Real-World Challenges & Lessons from Live Deployments High-Performance WiFi for Seamless Learning, Research, and Student Experiences Thu, 04 Jun 2026 Online --> Register Now Event 5G Innovation Summit 2026 The 5G Industries Innovation Summit 2026 will bring together leaders from telecom, enterprise, government and technology ecosystems to explore the transformative role of 5G in enabling smarter, connected industries. Fri, 18 Sep 2026 New Delhi Register Now Show More Demand from advanced &#8288;chipmakers for ASML's EUV, or extreme ultraviolet, lithography tools used to print tiny chip circuits, has helped the Dutch manufacturer become Europe's most valuable company. Chipmakers are now testing the High NA, or high numerical aperture, version of the tool, which will be able to produce features up to 66% smaller - similar to having a better focus on a camera. Advt Intel has been the most aggressive in preparing to adopt ASML's High-NA tool, in an attempt to leapfrog competitors TSMC and Samsung. Memory chip makers including SK Hynix have also said they &zwnj;intend to use the new technology. TSMC has not ruled it out, but executive Kevin Zhang said it will stick with ASML's current EUV product for the next several generations of chips as the company &#8288;keeps squeezing out advances through innovative chip designs that don't require smaller lines. Fouquet said the artificial intelligence boom is expected to keep chip sales rising by 20% per year in the coming years. He acknowledged that some in the industry fear ASML's production capacity may be a bottleneck in expanding chip production, as it was during the COVID pandemic. But in a nod to TSMC and Samsung executives who spoke earlier at the conference, he quipped that they are the real bottleneck for AI as their firms must expand production - and buy more ASML products. Reuters Published On May 20, 2026 at 07:19 AM IST 2 min read --> Most Read in Devices Dutch ASML inks pact with Tata Electronics to supply lithography tools, solutions for Dholera fab Optiemus plans to set up second plant for screen protector manufacturing At Samsung, the global AI boom spurred a looming strike & deep divisions Qualcomm to soon launch data center solutions, eyes leadership position: Akash Palkhiwala See more on: ASML , ASML High-NA EUV machines , next-generation chip technology , TSMC High-NA adoption , chip manufacturing costs , ASML machines , International Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals --> Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals. Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox. --> Enter Email All about ETTelecom industry right on your smartphone! Download the ETTelecom App and get the Realtime updates and Save your favourite articles. --> Home Marketing --> News See whats happening in Telecom sector right now See whats happening in Telecom Industry right now --> Exclusive Read and get insights from specially curated unique stories from editorial Leaders Speak Business leaders sharing their insights Events Explore and discuss challenges & trends in India's leading B2B events Awards Recognise work that not only stood out but was also purposeful Webinars Join leaders & experts for roundtables, conferences, panels and discussions Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals Subscribe to our Daily, Weekly, and Evening NewsLetter, Take a look By continuing you agree to our Privacy Policy & Terms & Conditions News Leaders Speak Exclusive Events Awards Webinars Newsletters About Us Contact Us RSS Feed Sitemap Guest-Post Guidelines --> Advertise With Us We have various options to advertise with us including Events, Advertorials, Banners, Mailers, etc. Contact Us Download ETTelecom App Save your favourite articles with seamless reading experience Get updates on your preferred social platform Follow us for the latest news, insider access to events and more. ET Business Verticals India Auto Retail Health Energy CIO Real Estate Marketing & Advertising CFO IT Security BFSI Government Hospitality HR Legal ET TravelWorld Infra B2B CIOSEA HRSEA HREMEA Education EnergyWorldMEA Manufacturing Pharma ETGCC ETEnterpriseAI TechGig ETCIOEMEA Entrepreneur Datacenters @2026 ETTelecom.com. All Right Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Times of India Group Events
