# Trump could sign AI executive order as soon as Thursday - CNN

> Source: https://www.cnn.com/2026/05/20/tech/ai-executive-order-trump-white-house
> Collected: 2026-05-21
> Published: Wed, 20 May 2026 22:57:29 GMT
> Source Class: mainstream
> Query: open-weight AI models geopolitics latest
> Search Provider: tavily
> Focus Query: none
> Actor Tags: us
> Topic Tags: compute, military, open-models, regulation, safety

Trump could sign AI executive order as soon as Thursday | CNN Business Ad Feedback CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I&#x27;ve seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Close icon Business Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos More Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Follow CNN Download the CNN App World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics Elections 2026 Trump Facts First CNN Polls Redistricting Tracker Epstein Files Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV Featured CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN 10 CNN TV Schedule Listen All There Is with Anderson Cooper Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish Terms of Service with Clare Duffy CNN 5 Things All CNN Podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Download the CNN App Markets DOW S&amp;P 500 NASDAQ Hot Stocks Fear &amp; Greed Index ----- is driving the US market Latest Market News Trump could sign AI executive order as soon as Thursday SpaceX files for long-awaited public stock offering that could make Elon Musk a trillionaire House passes housing affordability bill that softens institutional investor ban Hot Stocks ----- is driving the US market Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later. Business Tech 2 min read Trump could sign AI executive order as soon as Thursday By Hadas Gold Updated May 20, 2026, 6:57 PM ET Published May 20, 2026, 6:57 PM ET PUBLISHED May 20, 2026, 6:57 PM ET President Donald Trump speaks to reporters as he leaves the White House on May 12, 2026. Manuel Balce Ceneta/AP/File AI See all topics Facebook Tweet Email Link Threads Link Copied! Follow The White House could issue as soon as Thursday an executive order pushing for a voluntary government review of new artificial intelligence models before they’re released publicly, sources with knowledge of the situation told CNN. The order will include a voluntary agreement in which AI companies would share advanced models with the government for a period of time ahead of launch, according to those sources. The timeframe has been a point of discussion between the industry and the government, with one version of the executive order laying out a 90-day pre-launch review period while some of the AI companies involved prefer a shorter period, such as 14 days, the sources said. Some of the biggest AI companies, including OpenAI and Anthropic, have been engaging with the White House on the executive order, according to two sources with knowledge of the discussions. Advanced AI models can supercharge cyberattacks, experts have said, and an early review could help the government protect against threats before they’re unleashed in the world. One draft version of the executive order is split into two sections: one on cybersecurity and another called “covered frontier models,” according to another source briefed on the discussions. The latter portion defines which types of AI models would be eligible for the voluntary framework for early government review and the possible 90-day pre-public access for the government. The cybersecurity section outlines a voluntary “clearinghouse” formed by the Treasury Department, other agencies and AI companies to find and fix security vulnerabilities in the unreleased AI models. It also calls for more hiring at the US Tech Force, a body of engineers recruited to modernize government computer systems. The White House declined to comment. The Trump administration had taken a more hands-off approach to AI regulation until recently, when Anthropic unveiled its Mythos model, which it says can exploit cybersecurity vulnerabilities at an unprecedented pace. Anthropic hasn’t released the model publicly and is instead granting access to a tightly controlled consortium of companies through its Project Glasswing. The company is working closely with federal, state, and local representatives. OpenAI is also granting businesses and governments special early access to its latest AI models to shore up their cyber defenses. The Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology announced earlier this month that major tech companies will share unreleased versions of their AI models with the government for national security and public safety-related evaluation. But that announcement is no longer available on the Commerce Department’s website. CNN’s Kristen Holmes contributed reporting. AI See all topics Facebook Tweet Email Link Threads Link Copied! Follow Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics Trump Facts First CNN Polls Elections 2026 Redistricting Tracker Epstein Files Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV Featured CNN Headlines Shows A-Z CNN 10 CNN TV Schedule Listen All There Is with Anderson Cooper Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish Terms of Service with Clare Duffy CNN 5 Things All CNN Podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Business Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Follow CNN Download the CNN app Download the CNN app Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility &amp; CC About Newsletters Transcripts &copy; 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.
