# CIA Official: Anthropic’s Mythos AI Should Be ‘Reflection Point’ - govtech.com

> Source: https://www.govtech.com/artificial-intelligence/cia-official-anthropics-mythos-ai-should-be-reflection-point
> Collected: 2026-05-20
> Published: Tue, 19 May 2026 15:59:19 GMT
> Source Class: mainstream
> Query: open-weight AI models geopolitics latest
> Search Provider: tavily
> Actor Tags: us
> Topic Tags: cloud, infrastructure, m-and-a, military, open-models, regulation

CIA Official: Anthropic’s Mythos AI Should Be ‘Reflection Point’ News Analytics Artificial Intelligence Civic Innovation Cloud &amp; Computing Cybersecurity Lohrmann on Cybersecurity Education Election Technology Emerging Tech Budget &amp; Finance Infrastructure Government Experience GovTech Biz Biz Data Health &amp; Human Services Justice &amp; Public Safety Broadband &amp; Network Policy Smart Cities Transportation Workforce &amp; People Voices Gov Efficiency Events Webinars Papers Magazine About About Us Advertise Newsletters Contact More Center for Digital Education Center for Digital Government Center for Public Sector AI Emergency Management Digital Communities Digital States GovTech Top 25 GovTech 100 Menu News Analytics Artificial Intelligence Civic Innovation Cloud &amp; Computing Cybersecurity Lohrmann on Cybersecurity Education Election Technology Emerging Tech Budget &amp; Finance Infrastructure Government Experience GovTech Biz Biz Data Health &amp; Human Services Justice &amp; Public Safety Broadband &amp; Network Policy Smart Cities Transportation Workforce &amp; People Voices Gov Efficiency Events Webinars Papers Magazine About About Us Advertise Newsletters Contact More Center for Digital Education Center for Digital Government Center for Public Sector AI Emergency Management Digital Communities Digital States GovTech Top 25 GovTech 100 Show Search Clear Search Query Submit Search --> CONTINUE TO SITE The 2026 GT Top 25 Doers, Dreamers and Drivers have been announced. Read more Close &#10005; IE 11 Not Supported For optimal browsing, we recommend Chrome, Firefox or Safari browsers. Artificial Intelligence CIA Official: Anthropic’s Mythos AI Should Be ‘Reflection Point’ Advanced AI models with unique hacking capabilities like Mythos should bring federal agencies that handle the government's sensitive information to a "reflection point," according to a CIA tech official. May 19, 2026&nbsp;&#x2022;&nbsp; Frank Konkel, Defense One Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Print Email (TNS) — Advanced AI models with unique hacking capabilities like&nbsp;Anthropic's&nbsp;Mythos should bring federal agencies that handle some of the government's most sensitive information to a "reflection point," according to one of the&nbsp;CIA's&nbsp;top tech officials. "I think it is a reflection point and I think people need to view it in that fashion," said&nbsp;Dan Richard, Associate Deputy Director of the&nbsp;CIA's&nbsp;Digital Innovation Directorate. Richard spoke on a panel Friday at the Qualys ROCon Public Sector 2026&nbsp; conference &nbsp;in&nbsp;Tysons Corner, Virginia. A previous version of the Mythos software was released to a limited group of tech companies in April with much fanfare, due to its ability to detect countless software bugs and defects. Security researchers and experts reacted &nbsp;with a mix of excitement and caution, with some warning the software could usher in a new era for hackers and lower the barrier to entry for would-be attackers. Mythos and competing models like OpenAI's GPT-5.5 have forced executive agencies to &nbsp;grapple with their capabilities &nbsp;and prompted emergency &nbsp;briefings &nbsp;for lawmakers. Richard said he feels "bullish in terms of the opportunities that are out there," largely because these AI models can help agencies like the CIA deal with the deluge of data they generate and automate responses to potential threats. He likened the current Mythos-driven moment to&nbsp;Ukraine's&nbsp;response to&nbsp;Russia's&nbsp;invasion in 2022. "[Ukraine] had gone through a decade of the Russians infiltrating their networks and having to deal with that implication, but when the Russians attacked in 2022 the Ukrainians were prepared because they understood they couldn't do it themselves," he said. "Shoulder-to-shoulder with them were the private sector vendors to support what they were doing and to help what they're doing." Richard said the&nbsp;U.S.&nbsp;government is in the "same position" now, and public-private partnerships will be key to ensuring the nation gets it right. "80% of our nation's critical infrastructure is in private sector hands, so there is no solution that does not include private sector partners," Richard said. "We talk about partnership all the time, but this is really different. This isn't transactional. This is us, as a country, figuring out with the academic community, with the private sector community and with our public sector partners working together to be able to defeat and take advantage of what I see as an optimal opportunity for the agency, but for the country." Joe Kelly, division director of the&nbsp;Applied Research Laboratory for Intelligence and Security&nbsp;at the&nbsp;University of Maryland, said advanced AI models are going to lower the barrier to entry for would-be hackers. "The real danger when we look at something like Mythos — whether you believe the hype or not — is it certainly creates what we already see with&nbsp;Claude Code, the ability for script kiddies to cause real damage even without knowing what they're doing," Kelly said. "It's going to lift all those. I do worry about the complexity that we're entering in this era." 'It's moving so fast, it's scary' IonQ Chief Information Officer&nbsp;Katie Arrington, who spent most of 2025 serving as the &nbsp;Pentagon's chief information officer , said the influx of advanced AI tools — and the speed at which they're emerging — will test government to the extreme. Existing governance requires IT security vulnerabilities be patched within 30 days, and 15 days for vulnerabilities designated "critical." "You don't have time like that anymore," Arrington said during a panel at the&nbsp;Qualys&nbsp;event. "We're talking about a tool that can find every vulnerability in seconds on a platform." Arrington said these kinds of advanced AI models weren't a discussion item even 12 months ago. At that time, the Pentagon was just trying to improve the speed that it could bring general AI tools into its networks. "It's moving so fast, it's scary," Arrington said. "It scares me and it excites me how fast Mythos came alive." Qualys&nbsp;CEO&nbsp;Sumedh Thakar&nbsp;said federal agencies may need to take a more proactive — rather than reactive — approach to risk management to deal with the growing range of threats from advanced AI tools. His company is using its AI-powered cybersecurity tools, including TotalCloud, &nbsp;which recently received authorization &nbsp;to operate in the government's&nbsp;FedRAMP High&nbsp;environments, to allow customers to automate vulnerability patching, reducing some of the manual processes and "dashboard tourism" cyber professionals otherwise deal with. Thakar said autonomous remediation allows savvy customers to "battle AI with the speed of AI." "Now with attackers leveraging AI, as soon as a patch comes out, they can reverse engineer the patch and they can start to figure out the exploit. Your 30 days has become 30 hours, or three hours," Thakar said. "What we really focus on is to get over the fear of autonomous remediation. It's not an option." © 2026 Government Executive Media Group LLC. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Print Email Tags: Federal Government Cybersecurity Artificial Intelligence Related Content Artificial Intelligence Denver City Council Approves Data Center Moratorium May 19, 2026 Artificial Intelligence New Jersey Groups Seek Moratorium on New Data Centers May 18, 2026 Artificial Intelligence AI-Generated Videos Have Invaded the L.A. Mayoral Race May 18, 2026 Artificial Intelligence AI Helps Bring Monkey Species Back from Brink of Extinction May 18, 2026 Artificial Intelligence Illinois Senate’s Eight-Bill Package Would Regulate AI May 15, 2026 Artificial Intelligence Reno, Nev., Is First in State to Pause Data Center Development May 15, 2026 Never miss a story with the GovTech Today newsletter. SUBSCRIBE twitter youtube facebook linkedin ©2026 All rights reserved. e.Republic LLC Do Not Sell My Personal Information | Privacy &amp; AI
